# WatchDog-AstroPi
Winning AstroPi KS3 Competition Entry

My initial idea, the one that got me thorough into the next phase, was a plant environment controller. This monitored all of the important aspects that a plant needs to grow. The reason why I have had to change my idea is because I wanted to use additional sensors; for example a light sensor and a ground moister sensor but this uses a bread board. However when the pi goes up to the ISS, the only piece of hardware it is going to have is the HAT board. Another reason why I have changed my idea is because I had originally planned to use the Pi NoIR camera with the blue filter to measure the amount of chlorophyll in the plant, but to do this, I would have to download an image processor and then code pi to be able to use the image processor to be able to measure the amount of chlorophyll. This would have taken me a long time, longer than possible with the time allowed for this project; when taking testing time into account as well.

I have changed my idea in the way that it isn’t about plants anymore, although it is still about the environment. I am still using some of the same sensors the thermometer and the hygrometer . I have utilised additional sensors to my original idea, the gyroscope and the barometer . My new idea is an environmental early warning system. This looks out for any changes that might normally happen in the environment and could take NASA hours to notice. It will be used like a black box, like in aviation, recording all kinds of important data. I have named my idea, WatchDog.
